Solid Tumor Rules
Skip to Main Content
An official website of the United States government
Share
on Facebook
Tweet
Print
Search SEER:
Main Menu

Main Menu

Home

Cancer Statistics

Cancer Statistics

Reports on Cancer

Annual Report to the Nation on the Status of Cancer

Cancer Stat Facts

Preliminary Cancer Incidence Rates and Trends

SEER Publications

Interactive Tools, Maps, & Graphs

Cancer Statistics Explorer Network

Understanding Statistics

Did You Know? Video Series

Defining Cancer Statistics

Glossary of Statistical Terms

SEER Data & Software

SEER Data & Software

SEER Incidence Database

Comparison of Data Products

How to Request the Data

Documentation for Data

SEER*Stat Database Details

NCCR Databases in SEER*Stat

Variable and Recode Definitions

U.S. Datasets

U.S. Mortality

U.S. Populations

Standard Populations

SEER Linked Databases

Statistical Software

SEER*Stat

SEER*Prep

Health Drivers Calculator (HD*Calc)

Methods & Tools for Population-based Cancer Statistics

Registry Operations

Registry Operations

Reporting Guidelines

SEER Program Coding Manual

Hematopoietic Project

Solid Tumor Rules

Tools & Software

Glossary for Registrars

SEER*Rx - Drug Database

SEER Abstracting Tool

SEER Data Management System (SEER*DMS)

Staging

Registrar Staging Assistant (SEER*RSA)

Summary Stage 2018

Staging Resources

Extent of Disease 2018

Questions & Answers

SEER Inquiry System

Ask a SEER Registrar

Data Collection Answers

Cancer PathCHART

Training

News & Events

About SEER

About SEER

Program Overview

Goals of the SEER Program

Fact Sheets & Brochures

Collaborating Organizations

SEER Registries

What is a Cancer Registry?

List of Registries

Registry Groupings

Population Characteristics

Research Activities

Residual Tissue Repository Program

SEER-Linked Virtual Tissue Repository Program

SEER Data Quality Initiatives
Section Menu

Home

Registry Operations

Reporting Guidelines

Solid Tumor Rules

Solid Tumor Rules

2026 Update (view
Revision History
)
Reporting Guidelines

Casefinding Lists

SEER Coding and Staging Manual

Appendix C for 2025 Manual

Appendix C for 2026 Manual

Hematopoietic Project

Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Database

Revision History

Online Training

ICD-O-3 Coding Materials

Solid Tumor Rules

2026 Update Revisions

Revision Archive

Histology Coding Clarifications

Historical Staging and Coding Manuals

MP/H Rules

Download the Rules Manual

Revision History

Task Force Membership

Grade Coding Instructions 2014-2017

SEER Data Submission Requirements

COVID-19 Abstraction Guidance

COVID-19 Presentations

COVID-19 Q&A

Download the Solid Tumor Rules 2026 Update
(PDF, 8.7 MB)
(December 12, 2025)

Purpose of Solid Tumor Rules

The purpose of the Solid Tumor Rules is to determine the number of primaries to abstract and the histology to code.
The most recent Solid Tumor Rules update should be used as soon as it is released
and can be applied to 2018+ cases (see General Instructions for start years for each Site-group). If a specific code or instruction has an effective year later than 2018, it will be noted in the text.

2026 Solid Tumor Rules Release Announcement

The Solid Tumor Rules have been updated for 2026. In addition to the standard annual updates, the Solid Tumor Manual underwent a substantial reformatting to improve clarity and usability.

Key updates include the following:

Restructured general instructions

Reformatted and restructured the histology tables

Changed from 3 columns to 2 columns

Histology corrections made in several site-group tables

In-table notes moved to footnotes

Malignant and Non-malignant CNS: Table 1: WHO Grades for Select CNS Neoplasms has been replaced by a link to the most current CAP Protocol for CNS.

Updated list of ambiguous terms that can be used for determining histology

Breast rules M10 and H28 deleted

See the
Revision History
for a comprehensive description of changes.

NOTE:
For information on implementation of the 2026 update, see the
Diagnosis Years for Which the Solid Tumor Rules Should Be Used
section in the General Instructions (page 7).

Educational Opportunities

The 2026 updates to the Solid Tumor Manual will be discussed during the
V26 Updates: Solid Tumor Rules, SSDIs, CPC and More
informational webinar on January 14, 2026 at 2pm ET. Registration is free and participants are eligible for 2 continuing education (CE) credits.

A more in-depth discussion of the changes will be included in the
SEER 2025-2026 Advanced Topics for Registry Professionals on Demand Workshop
.

Where Should I Submit Questions?

Questions concerning the Solid Tumor Rules Manual can be directed to the
Ask A SEER Registrar Forum
.

Revision History

Significant formatting changes were made to the histology tables
. Please see the
2026 Update Revisions
. Changes for earlier versions are available in the
Revision Archive
.

Suggested Citation

Dickie, L., Adams, S., Harrison, D., Hofferkamp, J., Traverso-Ortiz, M., Van Dyke, A., Negoita, S. (December 2025). Solid Tumor Rules. National Cancer Institute, Rockville, MD 20850.
Return to Top

SEER is supported by the
Surveillance Research Program (SRP)
in NCI's
Division of Cancer Control and Population Sciences (DCCPS)
. SRP provides national leadership in the science of cancer surveillance as well as analytical tools and methodological expertise in collecting, analyzing, interpreting, and disseminating reliable population-based statistics.

Follow SEER

Sign up for email updates
Sign Up

Contact Information

Contact SEER

NCI LiveHelp Online Chat

More Information

Careers

Sitemap

Using This Website

Policies

Accessibility

Disclaimer

FOIA

HHS Vulnerability Disclosure

Privacy & Security

Reuse of Graphics and Text

Website Linking

U.S. Department of Health and Human Services

National Institutes of Health

National Cancer Institute

USA.gov

NIH... Turning Discovery Into Health
®
window.dataLayer = window.dataLayer || []; function gtag(){dataLayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new Date()); gtag('config', 'UA-125238734-1');
var fb_page = window.location.href; //current page url var page_title = $("title").text(); //current page title fb_page = "https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=" + fb_page + "&t=" + page_title; //insert url and title into the FB sharer $(".facebook-share-button").attr('href', fb_page); //add sharer url to link