                           SEER Program Coding and Staging Manual 2026


                                         Coding Guidelines

                                               Bladder
                                              C670–C679
Reportability

Do not report bladder cancer based on UroVysion test results alone. Report the case if there is a
physician statement of malignancy and/or the patient was treated for cancer.

Not reportable
      Papillary urothelial neoplasms of low malignant potential (PUNLMPs)
             The WHO classification categorizes "PUNLMP" as borderline, 8130/1. The definition is "a
             papillary urothelial tumor which resembles the exophytic urothelial papilloma, but shows
             increased cellular proliferation exceeding the thickness of normal urothelium." The
             histopathologic description is "the papillae of PUNLMP are discrete, slender and not fused
             and are lined by multilayered urothelium with minimal to absent cytologic atypia….Mitoses
             are rare and have a basal location."
      Papilloma of bladder
             The WHO classification categorizes "urothelial papilloma" as benign, 8120/0. The definition
             is "composed of a delicate fibrovascular core covered by urothelium indistinguishable from
             that of normal urothelium." The histopathologic description is "characterized by discrete
             papillary fronds with occasional branching…the epithelium lacks atypia…mitoses are absent
             to rare and, if present, are basal in location and not abnormal. The lesions are often small and
             occasionally show concomitant inverted growth pattern. Rarely, papilloma may show
             extensive involvement of the mucosa."


Primary Site

C670 Trigone of bladder
     Base of bladder
     Floor
     Below interureteric ridge* (interureteric crest or interureteric fold)

C671 Dome of bladder
     Vertex
     Roof
     Vault

C672 Lateral wall of bladder
     Right wall
     Left wall
     Lateral to ureteral orifice
     Sidewall

C673 Anterior wall of bladder

C674 Posterior wall of bladder



                                     Appendix C: Coding Guidelines                                         1
                          SEER Program Coding and Staging Manual 2026


C675 Bladder neck
     Vesical neck
     Internal urethral orifice
     Internal urethral/uretero orifice

C676 Ureteric orifice
     Just above ureteric orifice

C677 Urachus
     Mid umbilical ligament
     Urachal remnant

C678 Overlapping lesion of bladder
     Lateral-posterior wall (hyphen)
     Fundus

C679 Bladder, NOS
     Lateral posterior wall (no hyphen)
     Posterolateral wall

* The interureteric ridge is a fold of mucous membrane extending across the bladder between the
      ureteric orifices and forms one of the boundaries for the trigone of the bladder.


                                    Bladder Anatomy and ICD-O-3




                                              Source: UICC TNM Atlas, 3rd edition, 2nd revision


                                    Appendix C: Coding Guidelines                                 2
                          SEER Program Coding and Staging Manual 2026


Priority Order for Coding Subsites

Use the information from reports in the following priority order to code a subsite when the medical record
contains conflicting information:

Operative report (TURB)
Pathology report


Multifocal Tumors

Assign site code C679 when there are multifocal tumors all of the same behavior in more than one subsite
of the bladder and the specific subsite of origin is not known.

If the TURB or pathology proves invasive tumor in one subsite and in situ tumor in all other involved
subsites, code to the subsite involved with invasive tumor.




                                    Appendix C: Coding Guidelines                                       3
                           SEER Program Coding and Staging Manual 2026


Bladder Wall Pathology

The bladder wall is composed of three layers. There may be “sub layers” within the major layer of the
bladder.

 Bladder Layer           Sub Layer                Synonyms                   Staging            Description
 Mucosa                                    Epithelium, transitional   No blood vessels,      First layer on
                                           epithelium, urothelium,    in situ/noninvasive    inside of
                                           mucosal surface,                                  bladder; Lines
                                           transitional mucosa                               bladder, ureters,
                                                                                             and urethra
                    Basement                                          No invasion of         Single layer of
                    membrane                                          basement               cells that lies
                                                                      membrane is in         beneath the
                                                                      situ                   mucosal layer
                                                                      Invasion/penetratio    separating the
                                                                      n of basement          epithelial layer
                                                                      membrane is            from the lamina
                                                                      invasive               propria
                    Submucosa              Submucous coat,            Invasive               Areolar
                                           lamina propria, areolar                           connective tissue
                                           connective tissue                                 interlaced with
                                                                                             the muscular
                                                                                             coat. Contains
                                                                                             blood vessels,
                                                                                             nerves, and in
                                                                                             some regions,
                                                                                             glands
 Lamina propria                            Submucosa,             Invasive
                                           Suburothelial
                                           connective tissue,
                                           subepithelial tissue,
                                           stroma, muscularis
                                           mucosa, transitional
                                           epithelium
 Muscle             Bladder wall           Muscularis, muscularis Invasive
                                           propria, muscularis
                                           externa, smooth muscle

Tumor extends through the bladder wall (invades regional tissue) when the tumor is stated to involve one
of the following areas.

Serosa (Tunica serosa): The outermost serous coat is a reflection of the peritoneum that covers the
      superior surface and the upper parts of the lateral surfaces of the urinary bladder. The serosa is part
      of visceral peritoneum. The serosa is reflected from these bladder surfaces onto the abdominal and
      pelvic walls.
Perivesical fat
Adventitia: Some areas of the bladder do not have a serosa. Where there is no serosa, the connective
      tissue of surrounding structures merges with the connective tissue of the bladder and is called
      adventitia.


                                     Appendix C: Coding Guidelines                                          4
                              SEER Program Coding and Staging Manual 2026


Histology 1

Over 90% of bladder cancers are urothelial (transitional) cell carcinomas, derived from the uroepithelium.
Other types include squamous cell carcinoma (about 2% to 7%) and adenocarcinoma (about 2%).
Adenocarcinomas may be of urachal origin or nonurachal origin, with the nonurachal type generally
thought to arise from metaplasia of chronically irritated transitional epithelium. Small cell carcinoma, and
rarely sarcoma, can also occur. Childhood rhabdomyosarcoma, a type of sarcoma, can form in muscle
tissue of the bladder.


Behavior Code

Especially for bladder, the behavior code and the stage may not match. Different rules apply to assigning
behavior code compared to assigning stage. Use the rules as they apply to each data item, do not mix
instructions from one data item to another.

Code the behavior as malignant (/3), not in situ (/2), when

• The diagnosis is high grade urothelial carcinoma AND there is no information regarding invasion

OR

• The pathology report says the submucosa is invaded with tumor

OR

• The only surgery performed is a transurethral resection of the bladder (TURB) documenting that depth
  of invasion cannot be measured because there is no muscle in the specimen AND

     o There is no information regarding invasion and the physician’s TNM designation is not available

     OR

     o The pathology report does not mention whether the submucosa is free of tumor or has been
       invaded

Code the behavior as in situ (/2) when

• The diagnosis is low grade urothelial carcinoma AND there is no information regarding invasion

OR

• The pathology report says the submucosa is free of tumor

OR




1 https://www.cancer.gov/types/bladder/hp/bladder-treatment-pdq#_33




                                         Appendix C: Coding Guidelines                                      5
                           SEER Program Coding and Staging Manual 2026


• The only surgery performed is a transurethral resection of the bladder (TURB) documenting that depth
 of invasion cannot be measured because there is no muscle in the specimen AND

           o   The TNM designation is Ta or Tis for TURB with no muscle in the specimen

OR

• The pathology report includes terminology using terms such as
             Non-invasive
             No stromal invasion identified
             No invasion identified
             No lamina propria invasion identified
             Extent of invasion: Absent


First Course Treatment

BCG
Code BCG as both surgery and immunotherapy. See the SEER manual, Appendix C, Bladder Surgery
Codes, SEER Note under code 16.

Treatment Modalities (most common treatments)

TURB with fulguration
TURB with fulguration followed by intravesical BCG (bacillus Calmette-Guerin) is usually used for
       patients with multiple tumors or for high-risk patients.
TURB with fulguration followed by intravesical chemotherapy
Photodynamic therapy (PDT) using laser light and chemotherapy
Segmental cystectomy (rare)
Radical cystectomy in patients with extensive or refractory superficial tumor
Internal irradiation (needles, seeds, wires, or catheters placed into or near the tumor) with or without
       external-beam irradiation
Chemotherapy
Immunotherapy/biologic therapy




                                     Appendix C: Coding Guidelines                                         6
