                             SEER Program Coding and Staging Manual 2026


                                            Coding Guidelines

                                         Rectosigmoid Junction
                                                 C199

Primary Site

A tumor is classified as rectosigmoid when differentiation between rectum and sigmoid is not possible.

A tumor is classified as rectal when

       •      Lower margin lies less than 16 cm from the anal verge or
       •      Any part of the tumor is located at least partly within the supply of the superior rectal artery



Anatomic Transition from Sigmoid to Rectum

In the sigmoid colon, approximately 12 to 15 cm from the dentate line, the tenia coli fuse to form the
circumferential longitudinal muscle of the rectal wall.

The rectum is defined clinically as the distal large intestine commencing opposite the sacral promontory
and ending at the anorectal ring, which corresponds to the proximal border of the puborectalis muscle
palpable on digital rectal examination. It extends 16 cm from the anal verge. 1


Glossary

Anal verge: The lower (distal) end of the anal canal, junction between the skin of the anal canal and the
perianal skin.

Anorectal ring: Top (proximal end) of the anal canal.

Dentate line: An anatomic landmark located between the anal verge and the anorectal ring indicating
where the rectum changes to the anal canal. Also called the pectinate line.

Tenia coli: (Plural: teniae coli). Any one of three longitudinal bands of smooth muscle in the colon. They
extend from the cecum to the sigmoid colon. Each band is approximately 8 mm wide throughout most of
the colon. The widths of the teniae increase in the sigmoid colon and eventually fuse into a covering of
longitudinal muscle in the rectum.




1 Wittekind C, Henson DE, Hutter RVP, Sobin LH, eds. TNM Supplement: A Commentary on Uniform Use. 2nd ed. New York,

 NY: Wiley-Liss; 2001.



                                       Appendix C: Coding Guidelines                                              1
