                           SEER Program Coding and Staging Manual 2026


                                            Surgery Codes

                                                 Breast
                                               C500–C509

Code the surgical resection code for breast primaries performed with diagnosis date of 01/01/2024 or
later.

Do not record reconstruction in this data items. See Breast Reconstruction [NAACCR #1335].

If contralateral breast reveals a second primary, each breast is abstracted separately.

Codes

B000 None; no surgery of primary site; autopsy ONLY

B200 Partial mastectomy; less than total mastectomy; lumpectomy, segmental mastectomy,
      quadrantectomy, tylectomy, with or without nipple resection
Note: Use code B200 when there is a previous positive biopsy (either core or FNA).

      B210 Excisional breast biopsy - Diagnostic excision, no pre-operative biopsy proven diagnosis of
           cancer
           Note: Use code B210 when a surgeon removes the (positive) mass and there was no biopsy
           (either core or FNA) done prior to the mass being removed.
           An excisional biopsy can occur when the nodule was previously not expected to be cancer.
      B215 Excisional breast biopsy, for atypia
           Note: Use code B215 when patient has biopsy that shows atypical ductal hyperplasia
           (ADH), an excision is then performed, and pathology shows in situ or invasive cancer. The
           excisional breast biopsy for ADH diagnosed the cancer, not the core biopsy.
           An excisional breast biopsy removes the entire tumor and/or leaves only microscopic
           margins.
           This surgical code was added for situations when atypia tissue is excised and found to be
           reportable. Approx. 10-15% of excised atypia are cancer and reportable.
      B240 Re-excision of margins from primary tumor site for gross or microscopic residual disease
           when less than total mastectomy performed
      B290 Central lumpectomy, only performed for a prior diagnosis of cancer, which includes removal
           of the nipple areolar complex
           Note: Use code B290 when the nipple areolar complex needs to be removed for patients with
           Paget disease or cancer directly involving the nipple areolar complex.
           A central lumpectomy removes the nipple areolar complex, whereas a lumpectomy does not.
           Central lumpectomy and central portion lumpectomy, central portion excision, central partial
           mastectomy are interchangeable terms.

B300 Skin-sparing mastectomy
       B310 WITHOUT removal of uninvolved contralateral breast
       B320 WITH removal of uninvolved contralateral breast
Note: A skin-sparing mastectomy removes all breast tissue and the nipple areolar complex and preserves
native breast skin. It is performed with and without sentinel node biopsy or axillary lymph node
dissection (ALND).



                                       Appendix C: Surgery Codes                                         1
                          SEER Program Coding and Staging Manual 2026


[SEER Note: Code Goldilocks mastectomy in Surgery of Primary Site 2023 (NAACCR #1291). Breast
surgery codes B300, B310, and B320 are the best available choices for "Goldilocks" mastectomy. It is
essentially a skin-sparing mastectomy with breast reconstruction. The choice between codes in the B300-
B320 range and codes in the B400-B420 range depends on the extent of the breast removal and the
contralateral breast removal. Review the operative report carefully and assign the code that best reflects
the extent of the breast removal.]

B400 Nipple-sparing mastectomy
      B410 WITHOUT removal of uninvolved contralateral breast
      B420 WITH removal of uninvolved contralateral breast
Note: A nipple-sparing mastectomy removes all breast tissue but preserves the nipple areolar complex
      and breast skin. It is performed with and without sentinel node biopsy or ALND.

B500 Areolar-sparing mastectomy
       B510 WITHOUT removal of uninvolved contralateral breast
       B520 WITH removal of uninvolved contralateral breast
Note: An areolar-sparing mastectomy removes all breast tissue and the nipple but preserves the areola and
breast skin. It is performed with and without sentinel node biopsy or ALND.

[SEER Note: Code the most invasive, extensive, or definitive surgery in Surgery of Primary Site 2023
(NAACCR #1291).

Assign code B510 or B520 if a patient has an excisional biopsy followed by an areolar-sparing
mastectomy during the first course of therapy. Code the cumulative result of the surgeries, which is an
areolar-sparing mastectomy in this case.]

B600 Total (simple) mastectomy
        B610 WITHOUT removal of uninvolved contralateral breast
        B620 WITH removal of uninvolved contralateral breast
Note: A total (simple) mastectomy removes all breast tissue, the nipple, areolar complex, and breast skin.
It is performed with and without sentinel node biopsy or ALND.
Use code B600, B610, B620 if patient had a modified radical mastectomy.

B700 Radical mastectomy, NOS
      B710 WITHOUT removal of uninvolved contralateral breast
      B720 WITH removal of uninvolved contralateral breast
      B760 Bilateral mastectomy for a single tumor involving both breasts, as for bilateral inflammatory
              carcinoma
A radical mastectomy removes all breast tissue, the nipple areolar complex, breast skin, and pectoralis
muscle. It is performed with level l-III ALND.

[SEER Note: Assign code B760 for a more extensive bilateral mastectomy for a single primary involving
both breasts. Assign code 0 in Surgical Procedure of Other Site (NAACCR #1294).]

B800 Mastectomy, NOS (including extended radical mastectomy)

B900 Surgery, NOS

B990 Unknown if surgery performed; death certificate ONLY




                                      Appendix C: Surgery Codes                                           2
