                          SEER Program Coding and Staging Manual 2026


          Site-Specific Codes for Neoadjuvant Therapy Treatment Effect

       Schemas: Colon and Rectum, Esophagus, Stomach, Anus, Pancreas

Neoadjuvant Therapy--Treatment Effect data item [NAACCR #1634] is related to the Neoadjuvant
Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632]. This data item records the findings from the post neoadjuvant
therapy surgical pathology report ONLY when surgery is performed after neoadjuvant therapy. This set
of codes applies to the schemas: Colon and Rectum, Esophagus, Stomach, Anus, and Pancreas.

 Code Description
  0   Neoadjuvant therapy not given/no known presurgical therapy
  1   Present: No viable cancer cells
      Complete response
      Score 0
  2   Present: Single cells or rare small groups of cancer cells
      Near complete response
      Score 1
  3   Present: Residual cancer with evident tumor regression, but more than single cells or rare small
      groups of cancer cells
      Partial response
      Minimal response
      Score 2
  4   Absent: Extensive residual cancer with no evident tumor regression
      Poor or no response
      Score 3
  6   Neoadjuvant therapy completed and surgical resection performed, response not documented or
      unknown
      Cannot be determined
  7   Neoadjuvant therapy completed and planned surgical resection not performed
  9   Unknown if neoadjuvant therapy performed
      Unknown if planned surgical procedure performed after completion of neoadjuvant therapy
      Death certificate only (DCO)


For purposes of this data item, neoadjuvant therapy is defined as systemic treatment (chemotherapy,
endocrine/hormone therapy, targeted therapy, immunotherapy, or biological therapy) and/or radiation
therapy given to shrink a tumor before surgical resection.

Surgical resection: For purposes of this data item, surgical resection is defined as the most definitive
surgical procedure that removes some or all of the primary tumor or site, with or without lymph nodes
and/or distant metastasis. For many sites, this would be Surgical Codes A300-A800 or B300-B800;
however, there are some sites where surgical codes less than A300 or B300 could be used, for example,
Code B290 for Breast (central lumpectomy).

Note: This data item is not the same as AJCC’s Post Therapy Path (yp) Pathological Response, which is
based on the managing/treating physician’s evaluation from the surgical pathology report and clinical
evaluation after neoadjuvant therapy. This data item addresses response based on the surgical pathology
report including the Treatment Effect section of the CAP Cancer Protocol if applicable.




            Appendix C: Site-Specific Codes for Neoadjuvant Therapy Treatment Effect                       1
                         SEER Program Coding and Staging Manual 2026


Coding Instructions

Use the Neoadjuvant Therapy--Treatment Effect data item [NAACCR #1634] to record the findings from
the post neoadjuvant therapy surgical pathology report ONLY including the Treatment Effect section of
the CAP Cancer Protocol if applicable.

      1.    Assign code 0
            a.    When the patient did not receive neoadjuvant therapy prior to surgical resection
            b.    When the treatment administered is not neoadjuvant therapy (pre-surgical treatment)
                  because surgical resection was not planned
                  Example: Patient with unresectable cancer (no surgical resection planned),
                  chemotherapy and radiation administered.
            c.    It is clear that the patient did not have neoadjuvant therapy based on the sequence of
                  diagnosis and treatment
                  Example: Patient diagnosed with cancer via needle core biopsy, had surgical resection
                  followed by chemotherapy and radiation.
            d.    For autopsy only cases
            Note: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] is coded to 0 or 3.
      2. Assign code 1 when
            a.    A complete response (CR) is documented in the surgical pathology report
                  Note: CR is defined as no viable cancer cells seen.
            b.    The treatment effect score is documented as 0
            c.    There is residual in situ cancer only
            Note: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] is coded to 1 or 2.
      3. Assign code 2 when
            a.    A near complete response is documented in the surgical pathology report
                  Note: Near complete response is defined as the presence of single cells or rare small
                  groups of cancer cells.
            b.    The treatment effect score is documented as 1
            Note: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] is coded to 1 or 2.
      4. Assign code 3 when
            a.    A partial response is documented in the surgical pathology report
                  Note: Partial or minimal response is defined as evidence of tumor regression, but
                  more than single cells present or there are rare small groups of cancer cells present.
            b.    The treatment effect score is documented as 2
            Note: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] is coded to 1 or 2.
      5. Assign code 4 when
            a.    A poor or no response is documented in the surgical pathology report




           Appendix C: Site-Specific Codes for Neoadjuvant Therapy Treatment Effect                        2
                  SEER Program Coding and Staging Manual 2026


     Note: Poor or no response is defined as no evidence of tumor regression.
     b.    The treatment effect score is documented as 3
     Note: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] is coded to 1 or 2.
6. Assign code 6 when
     a.    Neoadjuvant therapy was completed and there is no documented treatment response in
           the surgical pathology report
     Note: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] is coded to 1 or 2.
7. Assign code 7 when
     a.    The planned post neoadjuvant surgical resection was not completed for reasons
           including
           i.     Complete clinical response and planned surgical resection cancelled
           ii.    Treatment failure (stable or progressive disease) and planned surgical resection
                  cancelled
           iii.   Complications and planned surgical resection cancelled
           iv.    Patient refusal of planned surgical resection
           v.     Planned surgical resection started but not completed (surgical resection aborted)
     Note 1: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] is coded to 1 or 2.
     Note 2: Code the reason for the surgery not done in Reason for No Surgery [NAACCR
     #1340].
8. Assign code 9 when
     a.    It is unknown whether neoadjuvant therapy was administered
           i.     Planned, but unknown if given
           ii.    Death certificate only (DCO)
     b.    The only information available is the managing/treating physician’s evaluation
     Note 1: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] is coded to 9.
     Note 2: Neoadjuvant Therapy--Clinical Response data item [NAACCR #1633] is coded to 9.
     Note 3: Code 9 (unknown) should be used rarely.
     Note 4: Use code 0 when it is clear that the patient did not have neoadjuvant therapy based
     on the sequence of diagnosis and treatment.




     Appendix C: Site-Specific Codes for Neoadjuvant Therapy Treatment Effect                      3
