                          SEER Program Coding and Staging Manual 2026


          Site-Specific Codes for Neoadjuvant Therapy Treatment Effect

                                         Schema: Prostate

Neoadjuvant Therapy--Treatment Effect data item [NAACCR # 1634] is related to the Neoadjuvant
Therapy data item [NAACCR # 1632]. This data item records the findings from the post neoadjuvant
therapy surgical pathology report ONLY when surgery is performed after neoadjuvant therapy. This set
of codes applies to the Prostate schema.

 Code Description
  0   Neoadjuvant therapy not given/no known presurgical therapy
  1   No residual invasive carcinoma identified
      Residual in situ carcinoma only
      Stated as Complete response (CR)
  2   Radiation therapy effect present
  3   Hormonal therapy effect present
  4   Other therapy effect(s) present
  6   Neoadjuvant therapy completed and surgical resection performed, response not
      documented or unknown
      Cannot be determined
  7   Neoadjuvant therapy completed and planned surgical resection not performed
  9   Unknown if neoadjuvant therapy performed
      Unknown if planned surgical procedure performed after completion of neoadjuvant
      therapy
      Death certificate only (DCO)


For purposes of this data item, neoadjuvant therapy is defined as systemic treatment (chemotherapy,
endocrine/hormone therapy, targeted therapy, immunotherapy, or biological therapy) and/or radiation
therapy given to shrink a tumor before surgical resection.

Surgical resection: For purposes of this data item, surgical resection is defined as the most definitive
surgical procedure that removes some or all of the primary tumor or site, with or without lymph nodes
and/or distant metastasis. For many sites, this would be Surgical Codes A300-A800 or B300-B800;
however, there are some sites where surgical codes less than A300 or B300 could be used, for example,
Code B290 for Breast (central lumpectomy).

Note: This data item is not the same as AJCC’s Post Therapy Path (yp) Pathological Response, which is
based on the managing/treating physician’s evaluation from the surgical pathology report and clinical
evaluation after neoadjuvant therapy. This data item addresses response based on the surgical pathology
report including the Treatment Effect section of the CAP Cancer Protocol if applicable.


Coding Instructions

Use the Neoadjuvant Therapy--Treatment Effect data item [NAACCR # 1634] to record the findings from
the post neoadjuvant therapy surgical pathology report ONLY including the Treatment Effect section of
the CAP Cancer Protocol if applicable.




            Appendix C: Site-Specific Codes for Neoadjuvant Therapy Treatment Effect                       1
                   SEER Program Coding and Staging Manual 2026


1.   Assign code 0
     a.    When the patient did not receive neoadjuvant therapy prior to surgical resection
           Example: Patient received a short course of hormone therapy and it is not part of a
           clinical trial.
           Exception: If hormone therapy is given as part of a clinical trial, this is coded as
           neoadjuvant therapy and would not be coded as 0 for treatment effect.
     b.    When the treatment administered is not neoadjuvant therapy (pre-surgical treatment)
           because surgical resection was not planned
           Example: Patient diagnosed with prostate cancer. Patient opted for and treated with
           beam radiation only. No surgical resection planned.
     c.    When it is clear that the patient did not have neoadjuvant therapy based on the
           sequence of diagnosis and treatment
           Example: Patient diagnosed with prostate cancer via needle core biopsy, followed by
           radical prostatectomy.
     d.    For autopsy only cases
     Note: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR # 1632] coded to 0 or 3.
2.   Assign code 1 when
     a.    No residual invasive carcinoma is documented in the surgical pathology report
     b.    A complete response (CR) is documented in the surgical pathology report
           Note: CR is defined as the absence of all known tumor/lesions and lymph nodes.
     c.    There is residual in situ cancer only
     d.    The case meets the criteria in code 1 and also meets the criteria in code 2, 3, and/or 4.
           Code 1 is preferred over codes 2, 3, and 4.
     Note: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR # 1632] coded to 1 or 2.
3.   Assign code 2 when
     a.    Radiation therapy effect is present as documented in the surgical pathology report
     b.    The case meets the criteria in code 2 and also meets the criteria in code 3 and/or 4.
           Code 2 is preferred over codes 3 and 4.
     Note 1: Use code 2 only when the radiation therapy effect is seen after a complete course of
     neoadjuvant therapy. It is possible to see radiation therapy effect after a short course of
     therapy that does not qualify for neoadjuvant therapy. Assign code 0 in this situation.
     Note 2: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR # 1632] coded to 1.
4.   Assign code 3 when
     a.    Hormonal therapy effect is present as documented in the surgical pathology report
     Note: If hormone therapy is given as part of a clinical trial, this is considered neoadjuvant
     therapy.
     Example: Patient has localized prostate cancer and is part of a clinical trial. Three hormonal
     agents along with two ancillary agents were administered for 3 months, followed by radical
     prostatectomy that showed treatment effect.



     Appendix C: Site-Specific Codes for Neoadjuvant Therapy Treatment Effect                        2
                   SEER Program Coding and Staging Manual 2026


     b.    The case meets the criteria in code 3 and also meets the criteria in code 4. Code 3 is
           preferred over code 4.
     Note 1: Use code 3 only when the hormone therapy effect is seen after a complete course of
     neoadjuvant therapy. It is possible to see hormone therapy effect after a short course of
     therapy that does not qualify for neoadjuvant therapy. Assign code 0 in this situation.
     Note 2: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR # 1632] coded to 1.
5.   Assign code 4 when
     a.    Other treatment effect is present as documented in the surgical pathology report
     b.    The case meets the criteria in code 4 and codes 1, 2, and/or 3 do not apply to this case.
           Code 4 is last in terms of priority among codes 1, 2, 3 and 4.
     Note 1: Use code 4 only when the other therapy effect is seen after a complete course of
     neoadjuvant therapy. It is possible to see other therapy effect after a short course of therapy
     that does not qualify for neoadjuvant therapy. Assign code 0 in this situation.
     Note 2: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR # 1632] coded to 1.
6.   Assign code 6 when
     a.    Neoadjuvant therapy was completed and there is no documented treatment response in
           the surgical pathology report
     Note: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR # 1632] coded to 1 or 2.
7.   Assign code 7 when
     a.    The planned post neoadjuvant surgical resection was not completed for reasons
           including
           i.     Complete clinical response and planned surgical resection cancelled
           ii.    Treatment failure (stable or progressive disease) and planned surgical resection
                  cancelled
           iii.   Complications and planned surgical resection cancelled
           iv.    Patient refusal of planned surgical resection
           v.     Planned surgical resection started but not completed (surgical resection aborted)
     Note 1: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR # 1632] coded to 1 or 2.
     Note 2: Code the reason for the surgery not done in Reason for No Surgery [NAACCR #
     1340].
8.   Assign code 9 when
     a.    It is unknown whether neoadjuvant therapy was administered
           i.     Planned, but unknown if given
           ii.    Death certificate only (DCO)
     b.    The only information available is the managing/treating physician’s evaluation
     Note 1: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR # 1632] coded to 9.
     Note 2: Neoadjuvant Therapy--Clinical Response data item [NAACCR # 1633] coded to 9.
     Note 3: Code 9 (unknown) should be used rarely.



     Appendix C: Site-Specific Codes for Neoadjuvant Therapy Treatment Effect                          3
             SEER Program Coding and Staging Manual 2026


Note 4: Use code 0 when it is clear that the patient did not have neoadjuvant therapy based
on the sequence of diagnosis and treatment.




Appendix C: Site-Specific Codes for Neoadjuvant Therapy Treatment Effect                      4
