                          SEER Program Coding and Staging Manual 2026


          Site-Specific Codes for Neoadjuvant Therapy Treatment Effect

                                          Schema: Breast

Neoadjuvant Therapy--Treatment Effect data item [NAACCR #1634] is related to the Neoadjuvant
Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632]. This data item records the findings from the post neoadjuvant
therapy surgical pathology report ONLY when surgery is performed after neoadjuvant therapy. This set
of codes applies to the Breast schema.

Note: For Breast only, there are separate criteria for evaluating the primary tumor and lymph nodes. For
purposes of this data item, record the information on the primary tumor only. If lymph node information
is available, record this in the treatment text field.

 Code Description
  0   Neoadjuvant therapy not given/no known presurgical therapy
  1   No residual invasive carcinoma present in the breast after presurgical therapy
      Residual in situ carcinoma only
      Stated as Complete response (CR)
  3   Probable or definite response to presurgical therapy in the invasive carcinoma
      Stated as Partial response (PR)
      Stated as minimal or near complete response
  4   No definite response to presurgical therapy in the invasive carcinoma
      Stated as No response (NR)
      Stated as poor response
  6   Neoadjuvant therapy completed and surgical resection performed, response not
      documented or unknown
      Cannot be determined
  7   Neoadjuvant therapy completed and planned surgical resection not performed
  9   Unknown if neoadjuvant therapy performed
      Unknown if planned surgical procedure performed after completion of neoadjuvant
      therapy
      Death certificate only (DCO)


For purposes of this data item, neoadjuvant therapy is defined as systemic treatment (chemotherapy,
endocrine/hormone therapy, targeted therapy, immunotherapy, or biological therapy) and/or radiation
therapy given to shrink a tumor before surgical resection.

Surgical resection: For purposes of this data item, surgical resection is defined as the most definitive
surgical procedure that removes some or all of the primary tumor or site, with or without lymph nodes
and/or distant metastasis. For many sites, this would be Surgical Codes A300-A800 or B300-B800;
however, there are some sites where surgical codes less than A300 or B300 could be used, for example,
Code B290 for Breast (central lumpectomy).

Note: This data item is not the same as AJCC’s Post Therapy Path (yp) Pathological Response, which is
based on the managing/treating physician’s evaluation from the surgical pathology report and clinical
evaluation after neoadjuvant therapy. This data item addresses response based on the surgical pathology
report including the Treatment Effect section of the CAP Cancer Protocol if applicable.




            Appendix C: Site-Specific Codes for Neoadjuvant Therapy Treatment Effect                       1
                         SEER Program Coding and Staging Manual 2026


Coding Instructions

Use the Neoadjuvant Therapy--Treatment Effect data item [NAACCR #1634] to record the findings from
the post neoadjuvant therapy surgical pathology report ONLY including the Treatment Effect section of
the CAP Cancer Protocol if applicable.

      1.    Assign code 0
            a.    When the patient did not receive neoadjuvant therapy prior to surgical resection
            b.    When the treatment administered is not neoadjuvant therapy (pre-surgical treatment)
                  because surgical resection was not planned
                  Example: Patient with unresectable breast cancer (no surgical resection planned),
                  chemotherapy and radiation administered.
            c.    When it is clear that the patient did not have neoadjuvant therapy based on the
                  sequence of diagnosis and treatment
                  Example: Patient diagnosed with breast cancer via needle core biopsy, had surgical
                  resection followed by chemotherapy and radiation.
            d.    For autopsy only cases
            Note: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] is coded to 0 or 3.
      2.    Assign code 1 when
            a.    A complete (total) pathological response (CR) is documented in the surgical
                  pathology report
                  Note: CR is defined as the absence of all known primary tumor.
            b.    Residual in situ cancer only
            Note: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] is coded to 1 or 2.
      3.    Assign code 3 when
            a.    A probable or definite response is documented in the surgical pathology report
                  Note: Partial response (PR) is defined as a decrease in the size/extent of the tumor and
                  there is evidence of tumor regression.
            b.    Documented as minimal or near complete response
            Note: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] is coded to 1 or 2.
      4.    Assign code 4 when
            a.    No definite response (NR) or poor response is documented in the surgical pathology
                  report
                  Note: No or poor response is defined as evidence of no or minimal change in the
                  size/extent of the tumor or evidence of extensive residual invasive cancer identified.
            Note: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR # 1632] is coded to 1 or 2.
      5.    Assign code 6 when
            a.    Neoadjuvant therapy was completed and there is no documented treatment response in
                  the surgical pathology report




           Appendix C: Site-Specific Codes for Neoadjuvant Therapy Treatment Effect                        2
                  SEER Program Coding and Staging Manual 2026


     b.    Neoadjuvant therapy was completed and the treatment effect in the breast is stated
           only as “Present”
     Note: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] is coded to 1 or 2.
6.   Assign code 7 when
     a.    The planned post neoadjuvant surgical resection was not completed for reasons
           including
           i.     Complete clinical response and planned surgical resection cancelled
           ii.    Treatment failure (stable or progressive disease) and planned surgical resection
                  cancelled
           iii.   Complications and planned surgical resection cancelled
           iv.    Patient refusal of planned surgical resection
           v.     Planned surgical resection started but not completed (surgical resection aborted)
     Note 1: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] is coded to 1 or 2.
     Note 2: Code the reason for the surgery not done in Reason for No Surgery [NAACCR
     #1340].
7.   Assign code 9 when
     a.    It is unknown whether neoadjuvant therapy was administered
           i.     Planned, but unknown if given
           ii.    Death certificate only (DCO)
     b.    The only information available is the managing/treating physician’s evaluation
     Note 1: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] is coded to 9.
     Note 2: Neoadjuvant Therapy--Clinical Response data item [NAACCR # 1633] is coded to
     9.
     Note 3: Code 9 (unknown) should be used rarely.
     Note 4: Use code 0 when it is clear that the patient did not have neoadjuvant therapy based
     on the sequence of diagnosis and treatment.




     Appendix C: Site-Specific Codes for Neoadjuvant Therapy Treatment Effect                      3
