                          SEER Program Coding and Staging Manual 2026


          Site-Specific Codes for Neoadjuvant Therapy Treatment Effect

                                        Schemas: Bladder

Neoadjuvant Therapy--Treatment Effect data item [NAACCR #1634] is related to the Neoadjuvant
Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632]. This data item records the findings from the post neoadjuvant
therapy surgical pathology report ONLY when surgery is performed after neoadjuvant therapy. This set
of codes applies to the Bladder schema.

Note 1: The definitions for Treatment Effect for Bladder have changed based on the Bladder CAP
Protocol released September 2023.

Note 2: BCG prior to surgical resection is not neoadjuvant therapy.

 Code Description
  0   Neoadjuvant therapy not given/no known presurgical therapy
  1   Complete pathological response
      Absence of histologically identifiable residual cancer cells and extensive fibrosis of the
      tumor bed after presurgical neoadjuvant therapy (TRG1)
      Residual in situ carcinoma only
      Stated as TRG1
  2   Strong response (near complete pathological response)
      Predominant fibrosis of the tumor bed with residual cancer cells occupying less than
      50% of this area (TRG2)
      Stated as TRG2
  3   Weak/poor response (partial or minimal response) OR no pathological response)
      Residual cancer cells occupying greater than or equal to 50% of the tumor bed or
      absence of regressive changes (TRG3)
      Stated as TRG3
      Stated as weak, partial, or minimal response
      Stated as no response
  4   Stated as response, percentage not given
      Response, NOS
      Not stated as TRG1, TRG2, TRG3
      Not stated as complete, partial, weak, minimal, poor, or no response
  6   Neoadjuvant therapy completed and surgical resection performed, response not
      documented or unknown
      Cannot be determined
  7   Neoadjuvant therapy completed and planned surgical resection not performed
  9   Unknown if neoadjuvant therapy performed
      Unknown if planned surgical procedure performed after completion of neoadjuvant
      therapy
      Death certificate only (DCO)


For purposes of this data item, neoadjuvant therapy is defined as systemic treatment (chemotherapy,
endocrine/hormone therapy, targeted therapy, immunotherapy, or biological therapy) and/or radiation
therapy given to shrink a tumor before surgical resection.




            Appendix C: Site-Specific Codes for Neoadjuvant Therapy Treatment Effect                  1
                          SEER Program Coding and Staging Manual 2026


Surgical resection: For purposes of this data item, surgical resection is defined as the most definitive
surgical procedure that removes some or all of the primary tumor or site, with or without lymph nodes
and/or distant metastasis. For many sites, this would be Surgical Codes A300-A800 or B300-B800;
however, there are some sites where surgical codes less than A300 or B300 could be used, for example,
Code B290 for Breast (central lumpectomy).

Note: This data item is not the same as AJCC’s Post Therapy Path (yp) Pathological Response, which is
based on the managing/treating physician’s evaluation from the surgical pathology report and clinical
evaluation after neoadjuvant therapy. This data item addresses response based on the surgical pathology
report including the Treatment Effect section of the CAP Cancer Protocol if applicable.


Coding Instructions

Use the Neoadjuvant Therapy--Treatment Effect data item [NAACCR # 1634] to record the findings from
the post neoadjuvant therapy surgical pathology report ONLY including the Treatment Effect section of
the CAP Cancer Protocol if applicable.

      1.     Assign code 0
             a.    When the patient did not receive neoadjuvant therapy prior to surgical resection
             b.    When the treatment administered is not neoadjuvant therapy (pre-surgical treatment)
                   because surgical resection was not planned
                   Example: Patient with unresectable bladder cancer (no surgical resection planned),
                   chemotherapy and radiation administered.
             c.    When it is clear that the patient did not have neoadjuvant therapy based on the
                   sequence of diagnosis and treatment
                   Example: Patient diagnosed with bladder cancer via biopsy, had surgical resection
                   followed by chemotherapy and radiation.
             d.    For autopsy only cases
             Note: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] is coded to 0 or 3.
      2.     Assign code 1 when
             a.    A complete (total) pathological response (CR) is documented in the surgical
                   pathology report
                   Note: CR is defined as the absence of all known tumor/lesions and lymph nodes.
             b.    There is residual in situ cancer only
             Note: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] is coded to 1 or 2.
      3.     Assign code 2 when
             a.    A strong or near complete response is documented in the surgical pathology report
             Note 1: Strong or near response is defined as less than 50% viable tumor and evidence of
             fibrosis.
             Note 2: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] is coded to 1 or 2.




            Appendix C: Site-Specific Codes for Neoadjuvant Therapy Treatment Effect                       2
                  SEER Program Coding and Staging Manual 2026


4.   Assign code 3 when
     a.    A weak, poor, or partial response (PR) is documented in the surgical pathology report
     Note 1: Weak or partial response is defined as greater than or equal to 50% of the tumor bed
     or no evidence of regressive changes. Also code 3 when there is no response.
     Note 2: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] is coded to 1 or 2.
5.   Assign code 4 when
     a.    A response is documented; however, there is no statement of complete, strong, near,
           partial, weak, or poor response, and the percentage of viable tumor is not known
     Note: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] is coded to 1 or 2.
6.   Assign code 6 when
     a.    Neoadjuvant therapy was completed and there is no documented treatment response in
           the surgical pathology report
     Note: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] is coded to 1 or 2.
7.   Assign code 7 when
     a.    The planned post neoadjuvant surgical resection was not completed for reasons
           including
           i.     Complete clinical response and planned surgical resection cancelled
           ii.    Treatment failure (stable or progressive disease) and planned surgical resection
                  cancelled
           iii.   Complications and planned surgical resection cancelled
           iv.    Patient refusal of planned surgical resection
           v.     Planned surgical resection started but not completed (surgical resection aborted)
     Note 1: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] coded to 1 or 2.
     Note 2: Code the reason for the surgery not done in Reason for No Surgery [NAACCR
     #1340].
8.   Assign code 9 when
     a.    It is unknown whether neoadjuvant therapy was administered
           i.     Planned, but unknown if given
           ii.    Death certificate only (DCO)
     b.    The only information available is the managing/treating physician’s evaluation
     Note 1: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] is coded to 9.
     Note 2: Neoadjuvant Therapy--Clinical Response data item [NAACCR #1633] is coded to 9.
     Note 3: Code 9 (unknown) should be used rarely.
     Note 4: Use code 0 when it is clear that the patient did not have neoadjuvant therapy based
     on the sequence of diagnosis and treatment.




     Appendix C: Site-Specific Codes for Neoadjuvant Therapy Treatment Effect                      3
