                          SEER Program Coding and Staging Manual 2026


          Site-Specific Codes for Neoadjuvant Therapy Treatment Effect

   Schemas: All Other Schemas (Schemas not covered by site-specific codes)

Neoadjuvant Therapy--Treatment Effect data item [NAACCR #1634] is related to the Neoadjuvant
Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632]. This data item records the findings from the post neoadjuvant
therapy surgical pathology report ONLY when surgery is performed after neoadjuvant therapy. This set
of codes applies to the all other schemas not covered by site-specific neoadjuvant therapy treatment effect
codes.

 Code Description
  0   Neoadjuvant therapy not given/no known presurgical therapy
  1   Complete pathological response
      Present: No viable cancer cells/no residual invasive carcinoma identified
      Residual in situ carcinoma only
  2   Near complete pathological response
      Present: Single cells or rare small groups of invasive cancer cells
  3   Partial or minimal pathological response
      Present: Residual invasive cancer with evident tumor regression, but more than single cells or
      rare small groups of cancer cells
  4   Poor or no pathological response
      Absent: Extensive residual cancer with no evident tumor regression
  6   Neoadjuvant therapy completed and surgical resection performed, response not documented or
      unknown
      Cannot be determined
  7   Neoadjuvant therapy completed and planned surgical resection not performed
  9   Unknown if neoadjuvant therapy performed
      Unknown if planned surgical procedure performed after completion of neoadjuvant therapy
      Death certificate only (DCO)


For purposes of this data item, neoadjuvant therapy is defined as systemic treatment (chemotherapy,
endocrine/hormone therapy, targeted therapy, immunotherapy, or biological therapy) and/or radiation
therapy given to shrink a tumor before surgical resection.

Surgical resection: For purposes of this data item, surgical resection is defined as the most definitive
surgical procedure that removes some or all of the primary tumor or site, with or without lymph nodes
and/or distant metastasis. For many sites, this would be Surgical Codes A300-A800 or B300-B800;
however, there are some sites where surgical codes less than A300 or B300 could be used, for example,
Code B290 for Breast (central lumpectomy).

Note: This data item is not the same as AJCC’s Post Therapy Path (yp) Pathological Response, which is
based on the managing/treating physician’s evaluation from the surgical pathology report and clinical
evaluation after neoadjuvant therapy. This data item addresses response based on the surgical pathology
report including the Treatment Effect section of the CAP Cancer Protocol if applicable.




            Appendix C: Site-Specific Codes for Neoadjuvant Therapy Treatment Effect                       1
                         SEER Program Coding and Staging Manual 2026


Coding Instructions

Use the Neoadjuvant Therapy--Treatment Effect data item [NAACCR #1634] to record the findings from
the post neoadjuvant therapy surgical pathology report ONLY including the Treatment Effect section of
the CAP Cancer Protocol if applicable.

      1.    Assign code 0
            a.    When the patient did not receive neoadjuvant therapy prior to surgical resection
            b.    When the treatment administered is not neoadjuvant therapy (pre-surgical treatment)
                  because surgical resection not planned
                  Example: Patient with unresectable cancer (no surgical resection planned),
                  chemotherapy and radiation administered.
            c.    When it is clear that the patient did not have neoadjuvant therapy based on the
                  sequence of diagnosis and treatment
                  Example: Patient diagnosed with cancer via needle core biopsy, had surgical resection
                  followed by chemotherapy and radiation.
            d.    For autopsy only cases
            e.    For the following cases for which neoadjuvant therapy is not a part of standard
                  treatment
                  i.    Primary site: C420, C421, C423, C424, or C809
                  ii.   One of the following schemas
                         •    HemeRetic 00830
                         •    Ill-Defined Other 99999
                         •    Lymphoma 00790
                         •    Lymphoma (CLL/SLL) 00795
                         •    Mycosis Fungoides 00811
                         •    Plasma Cell Disorders 00822
                         •    Plasma Cell Myeloma 00821
                         •    Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas (excluding MF and SS) 00812
            Note: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] is coded to 0 or 3.
      2.    Assign code 1 when
            a.    A complete (total) pathological response (CR) is documented in the surgical
                  pathology report
                  Note: CR is defined as the absence of all known tumor/lesions and lymph nodes.
            b.    There is residual in situ cancer only
            Note: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] is coded to 1 or 2.
      3.    Assign code 2 when
            a.    A near complete response is documented in the surgical pathology report



           Appendix C: Site-Specific Codes for Neoadjuvant Therapy Treatment Effect                     2
                  SEER Program Coding and Staging Manual 2026


     Note 1: Near complete response is defined as a decrease in the size/extent of the tumor
     and/or presence of lymph nodes or metastatic disease and there is only evidence of single
     cells or small groups of cells of invasive cancer found in the surgical pathology report.
     Note 2: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] is coded to 1 or 2.
4.   Assign code 3 when
     a.    A partial response (PR) is documented in the surgical pathology report
     Note 1: PR response is defined as a decrease in the size/extent of the tumor and/or presence
     of lymph nodes or metastatic disease and there is evidence of tumor regression, but more
     than single cells or small groups of cells are evident in the surgical pathology report.
     Note 2: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] is coded to 1 or 2.
5.   Assign code 4 when
     a.    A poor or no response is documented in the surgical pathology report
     Note 1: No or poor response is defined as evidence of no or minimal change in the
     size/extent of the tumor and/or presence of lymph nodes or metastatic disease, or evidence of
     extensive residual invasive cancer identified.
     Note 2: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] is coded to 1 or 2.
6.   Assign code 6 when
     a.    Neoadjuvant therapy was completed and there is no documented treatment response in
           the surgical pathology report
     Note: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] is coded to 1 or 2.
7.   Assign code 7 when
     a.    The planned post neoadjuvant surgical resection was not completed for reasons
           including
           i.     Complete clinical response and planned surgical resection cancelled
           ii.    Treatment failure (stable or progressive disease) and planned surgical resection
                  cancelled
           iii.   Complications and planned surgical resection cancelled
           iv.    Patient refusal of planned surgical resection
           v.     Planned surgical resection started but not completed (surgical resection aborted)
     Note 1: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] is coded to 1 or 2.
     Note 2: Code the reason for the surgery not done in Reason for No Surgery [NAACCR
     #1340].
8.   Assign code 9 when
     a.    It is unknown whether neoadjuvant therapy was administered
           i.     Planned, but unknown if given
           ii.    Death certificate only (DCO)
     b.    The only information available is the managing/treating physician’s evaluation




     Appendix C: Site-Specific Codes for Neoadjuvant Therapy Treatment Effect                       3
             SEER Program Coding and Staging Manual 2026


Note 1: Neoadjuvant Therapy data item [NAACCR #1632] is coded to 9.
Note 2: Neoadjuvant Therapy--Clinical Response data item [NAACCR #1633] is coded to 9.
Note 3: Code 9 (unknown) should be used rarely.
Note 4: Use code 0 when it is clear that the patient did not have neoadjuvant therapy based
on the sequence of diagnosis and treatment.




Appendix C: Site-Specific Codes for Neoadjuvant Therapy Treatment Effect                      4
